---
permalink: /php/
title: Guía PHP 7
categories: [BACKEND]
---

Actualizado 01 Mar 2019 · Rev 2

http://www.sectornueve.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/php7.jpg

# Instalación PHP con PostgreSQL

>Pre-requisito: Base de datos PostgreSQL

{% highlight bash %}$ sudo apt-get install php php-cli php-gd php-zip php-opcache php-pgsql libapache2-mod-php php-mbstring php-xml{% endhighlight %}


Fuente: https://medium.com/@Riverside/how-to-install-apache-php-postgresql-lapp-on-ubuntu-16-04-adb00042c45d




# Instalación PHP con MariaDB

>Pre-requisito: Base de datos MariaDB

apt-get install php libapache2-mod-php php-mysql libapache2-mod-php php-cli

libsodium23 php-common php php7.2 php7.2-cli php-common php7.2-common php7.2-json php-mysql php7.2-mysql php7.2-opcache php7.2-readline psmisc php-pear libxslt1.1 php-xml php7.2-xml


This should install PHP without any problems. We'll test this in a moment.
In most cases, you will want to modify the way that Apache serves files when a directory is requested. Currently, if a user requests a directory from the server, Apache will first look for a file called index.html. We want to tell the web server to prefer PHP files over others, so make Apache look for an index.php file first.
To do this, type this command to open the dir.conf file in a text editor with root privileges:


sudo nano /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/dir.conf


It will look like this:


<IfModule mod_dir.c>
   DirectoryIndex index.html index.cgi index.pl index.php index.xhtml index.htm
</IfModule>
Move the PHP index file (highlighted above) to the first position after the DirectoryIndex specification, like this:
/etc/apache2/mods-enabled/dir.conf
<IfModule mod_dir.c>
   DirectoryIndex index.php index.html index.cgi index.pl index.xhtml index.htm
</IfModule>


When you are finished, save and close the file by pressing CTRL+X. Confirm the save by typing Y and then hit ENTER to verify the file save location.
After this, restart the Apache web server in order for your changes to be recognized. Do this by typing this:


sudo systemctl restart apache2

You can also check on the status of the apache2 service using systemctl:

sudo systemctl status apache2

Sample Output

· apache2.service - The Apache HTTP Server
  Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/apache2.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
  Active: active (running) since Tue 2018-09-04 18:23:03 UTC; 9s ago
  Process: 22209 ExecStop=/usr/sbin/apachectl stop (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
  Process: 22216 ExecStart=/usr/sbin/apachectl start (code=exited, status=0/SUCCESS)
Main PID: 22221 (apache2)
   Tasks: 6 (limit: 4915)
  CGroup: /system.slice/apache2.service
          ├─22221 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
          ├─22222 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
          ├─22223 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
          ├─22224 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
          ├─22225 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
          └─22226 /usr/sbin/apache2 -k start
To enhance the functionality of PHP, you have the option to install some additional modules. To see the available options for PHP modules and libraries, pipe the results of apt search into less, a pager which lets you scroll through the output of other commands:
	* 
apt search php- | less


Use the arrow keys to scroll up and down, and press Q to quit.
The results are all optional components that you can install. It will give you a short description for each:
Output
Sorting...
Full Text Search...
bandwidthd-pgsql/stable 2.0.1+cvs20090917-10 amd64
  Tracks usage of TCP/IP and builds html files with graphs

bluefish/stable 2.2.9-1+b1 amd64
  advanced Gtk+ text editor for web and software development

cacti/stable 0.8.8h+ds1-10 all
  web interface for graphing of monitoring systems

cakephp-scripts/stable 2.8.5-1 all
  rapid application development framework for PHP (scripts)

ganglia-webfrontend/stable 3.6.1-3 all
  cluster monitoring toolkit - web front-end

haserl/stable 0.9.35-2+b1 amd64
  CGI scripting program for embedded environments

kdevelop-php-docs/stable 5.0.3-1 all
  transitional package for kdevelop-php

kdevelop-php-docs-l10n/stable 5.0.3-1 all
  transitional package for kdevelop-php-l10n
…
:
To learn more about what each module does, you could search the internet for more information about them. Alternatively, look at the long description of the package by typing:
	* 
apt show package_name


There will be a lot of output, with one field called Description which will have a longer explanation of the functionality that the module provides.
For example, to find out what the php-cli module does, you could type this:
	* 
apt show php-cli


Along with a large amount of other information, you'll find something that looks like this:
Output
…
Description: command-line interpreter for the PHP scripting language (default)
This package provides the /usr/bin/php command interpreter, useful for
testing PHP scripts from a shell or performing general shell scripting tasks.
.
PHP (recursive acronym for PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a widely-used
open source general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited
for web development and can be embedded into HTML.
.
This package is a dependency package, which depends on Debian's default
PHP version (currently 7.0).
…
If, after researching, you decide you would like to install a package, you can do so by using the apt install command like you have been doing for the other software.
If you decided that php-cli is something that you need, you could type:


apt install php-cli


At this point, your LAMP stack is installed and configured. Before making any more changes or deploying an application, though, it would be helpful to proactively test out your PHP configuration in case there are any issues that should be addressed.Step 4 — Testing PHP Processing on your Web Server
In order to test that your system is configured properly for PHP, create a very basic PHP script called info.php. In order for Apache to find this file and serve it correctly, it must be saved to a very specific directory called the web root.

In Debian 9, this directory is located at /var/www/html/. Create the file at that location by running:

nano /var/www/html/info.php


This will open a blank file. Add the following text, which is valid PHP code, inside the file:
/var/www/html/info.php
{% highlight php %}<?php
  phpinfo();
?>{% endhighlight %}



When you are finished, save and close the file.
Now you can test whether your web server is able to correctly display content generated by this PHP script. To try this out, visit this page in your web browser. You'll need your server's public IP address again.
The address you will want to visit is:
http://your_server_ip/info.php
The page that you come to should look something like this:

This page provides some basic information about your server from the perspective of PHP. It is useful for debugging and to ensure that your settings are being applied correctly.
If you can see this page in your browser, then your PHP is working as expected.
You probably want to remove this file after this test because it could actually give information about your server to unauthorized users. To do this, run the following command:
	* 
sudo rm /var/www/html/info.php




-->